---
title: WWT @ DPS47
nav_exclude: true
---

# Archived Event: WWT @ DPS47

## Washington, DC, USA; 2015 November 8–13

*Location: Gaylord National Harbor, Annapolis 3*

This workshop is for people who are interested in learning about how to use
WorldWide Telescope (WWT) in the various aspects of their research,
instruction and outreach. WWT is a powerful visualization tool that enables
interactive exploration and can be used to create tours for playback. Tours
are like videos that run in the Windows desktop client or in an HTML5 browser.
Unlike a video, a tour can be paused and the viewpoint can be changed by the
user in order to see context or related data. Tours can be rendered out to
videos as well to include in talks or presentations.

The workshop will start out by showing how to get your data into WWT. This
includes getting planetary imaging, shape files, spacecraft trajectories,
surface traverse trails etc. into the system. It will then go over how to use
WWT to create tours and videos that can be used in various aspects of
scientific life. Use cases include making video abstracts for publishing,
creating tours and shows to use in outreach and for education. The educational
uses include both making tours for class instruction as well as having
students use WWT to create tours demonstrating their knowledge of planetary
science.

If you are planning on attending the workshop, it is suggested that at the
least you visit the website: <http://www.worldwidetelescope.org/> and review
some of the materials in the Getting Started section -
<http://www.worldwidetelescope.org/Learn/>. If you have a Windows laptop, you
should download the free application from the website so that you can follow
along. There is an HTML5 Web Client that implements a subset of the desktop
client which you can use if you don’t have a Windows machine at the meeting.

### Embedded HTML

```
<div id="wwtControl" data-wtml="http://jansky.phys.northwestern.edu/www/toothbrush.wtml"
     data-display="Cross fade" data-aspect-ratio="4:3"></div>
<script src="http://worldwidetelescope.org/embedded-webcontrol.js"></script>
```
